Add new "history" page and delete irrelevant pages (#35)
valkey-io/valkey-doc: docs/about/history.md

---
title: "Valkey history"
linkTitle: "History"
weight: 4
description: How the Valkey project started
aliases:
    - /topics/history
---

Valkey is a fork of the open-source Redis (REmote DIctionary Server) database

> created in 2009 by the Italian hacker Salvatore “antirez” Sanfilippo. He

Author: It is English typographic style. (It's more correct than "".) See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quotation_mark#Summary_table

I thought Chinese is using 「⋯」or『⋯』 but I see not it also uses “”.

> created in 2009 by the Italian hacker Salvatore “antirez” Sanfilippo. He

Reviewer: ok, got it, good to know

The following year, 2014, Garantia Data [changed its name to Redis Labs][redislabs].

[redislabs]: https://techcrunch.com/2014/01/29/database-provider-garantia-data-makes-another-name-change-this-time-to-redis-labs/)

In 2015, Salvatore left Pivotal for Redis Labs. He writes in his blog post
[Thanks Pivotal, Hello Redis Labs](http://antirez.com/news/91):

> Redis Labs was willing to continue what VMware and Pivotal started. I'll be
> able to work as I do currently, spending all my time in the open source side
> of the project, while Redis Labs continues to provide Redis users with an
> hassles-free Redis experience of managed instances and products.

In 2018, Redis Labs changed the license of some of its modules from AGPL to a
source-available license. The license prevents competing cloud providers from
offering these modules to customers and does therefore not fulfill the criteria
for an open source license.

This was interpreted by some as if Redis is no longer open source. Sanfilippo
clarified on his blog [Redis will remain BSD licensed][antirez-remain-bsd].

Yiftach Shoolman, CTO and co-founder of Redis Labs, also clarified in in the

> company's blog that [Redis’ License is BSD and will remain

Author: I think I copied from the article title.

But here it should be apostrophe (`'`), not quotation mark. I will change.

> company's blog that [Redis’ License is BSD and will remain

Author: ```suggestion
company's blog that [Redis' License is BSD and will remain
```

---
title: "Valkey history"
linkTitle: "History"
weight: 4
description: How the Valkey project started
aliases:
    - /topics/history
---

Valkey is a fork of the open-source Redis (REmote DIctionary Server) database
created in 2009 by the Italian hacker Salvatore “antirez” Sanfilippo. He
announced it on [Hacker News][hn] on Feb 25, 2009. [GitHub][gh] and
[Instagram][insta] were among the early adopters.

[hn]: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=494649
[gh]: https://github.blog/2009-11-03-introducing-resque/
[insta]: https://instagram-engineering.com/storing-hundreds-of-millions-of-simple-key-value-pairs-in-redis-1091ae80f74c

> Early works of Salvatore Sanfilippo

Reviewer 2: This section seems a bit out of place, as it really has little to do with Redis or Valkey.

Author: I trimmed it down a bit.

Reviewer 2: I agree it's cool all the stuff Salvatore did, it just didn't seem all that relevant to the history. I'm fine leaving it.

Author: There's no other place to put it. :D

Reviewer 2: A blog post? We also have that support on the website. "An homage to Salvatore"

Author: I'll keep it here for now. We can move this later when we have a blog.

> more like "We are Redis", (I even own the "redis-db.com" domain name since
> 2009! you can WHOIS it to check). So in my opinion calling the company
> "RedisDB" is wrong, especially since I and Garantia Data from time to time
> have friendly conversations as we are both part of the "Redis ecosystem", but
> I did not received any prior question about this issue.

The following year, 2014, Garantia Data [changed its name to Redis Labs][redislabs].

[redislabs]: https://techcrunch.com/2014/01/29/database-provider-garantia-data-makes-another-name-change-this-time-to-redis-labs/)

In 2015, Salvatore left Pivotal for Redis Labs. He writes in his blog post
[Thanks Pivotal, Hello Redis Labs](http://antirez.com/news/91):

> Redis Labs was willing to continue what VMware and Pivotal started. I'll be
> able to work as I do currently, spending all my time in the open source side
> of the project, while Redis Labs continues to provide Redis users with an
> hassles-free Redis experience of managed instances and products.

In 2018, Redis Labs changed the license of some of its modules from AGPL to a
source-available license. The license prevents competing cloud providers from

> offering these modules to customers and does therefore not fulfil the creteria

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
offering these modules to customers and does therefore not fulfill the criteria
```

for an open source license.

This was interpreted by some as if Redis is no longer open source. Sanfilippo
clarified on his blog [Redis will remain BSD licensed][antirez-remain-bsd].

Yiftach Shoolman, CTO and co-founder of Redis Labs, also clarified in in the
company's blog that [Redis’ License is BSD and will remain
BSD][will-remain-bsd]. He repeated this promise in [a comment on Hacker
News][hn-always-bsd], writing “let me assure you that Redis remains and always
will remain, open source, BSD license”.

[antirez-remain-bsd]: http://antirez.com/news/120
[will-remain-bsd]: https://redis.io/blog/redis-license-bsd-will-remain-bsd/
[hn-always-bsd]: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=17819392

> Also in 2018, Redis Labs aquired the trademark rights to the name Redis and the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also in 2018, Redis Labs acquired the trademark rights to the name Redis and the
```

I'm unclear if there is public confirmation of what Redis Labs acquired at the time.

Author: Thx. I'll avoid mentioning the year for this.

logo from Sanfilippo.

In 2020, Salvatore Sanfilippo announced in his blog post [The end of the Redis

> adventure](http://antirez.com/news/133) that he is stepped back as the Redis

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
adventure](http://antirez.com/news/133) that he was stepping back as the Redis
```

Author: Thanks for finding all my typos.

maintainer, handing over the maintenance to Yossi Gottlieb and Oran Agra at
Redis Labs. The two created a “core team” to maintain the project and invited
Itamar Haber from Redis Labs, Zhao Zhao from Alibaba and Madelyn Olson from
Amazon. The members were selected “based on demonstrated, long-term personal
involvement and contributions”. This was described in the projects
[Governance][governance-2020] page which was the inspiration for the current
[Valkey governance](valkey-governance).

[governance-2020]: https://web.archive.org/web/20200709170526/https://redis.io/topics/governance
[valkey-governance]: https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey/blob/unstable/GOVERNANCE.md

> In 2021, the Redis Labs changed its name to Redis.

Reviewer 2: If you want avoid calling them Redis, you can call them Redis Inc. or Redis ltd. It's at least backed up by their wikipedia page, then you can continue to call the project Redis.

```suggestion
In 2021, the Redis Labs changed its name to Redis ltd.
```

Author: Yes. I somehow wanted to make a point of the confusion they caused by having the same name for two things. But you're right, I'll use Ltd. as in on wikipeda. (Is it registered in multiple countries, one Inc. and one Ltd.? This is unclear to me but perhaps it doesn't matter.)

Reviewer 2: My vague understanding is that Redis Inc. is the top level parent company, but Redis ltd. owns all of the technology.

The end of open source Redis
----------------------------

> Despite the seemingly community-based core team, Redis (the company) maintained
> a majority in the core team as well as ownership of the Redis trademark. In

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Despite the seemingly community-based core team, Redis ltd. maintained ownership of the Redis trademark and control of the repositories. In
```

The fact they had a majority in the core team is, ultimately, irrelevant. They always owned the trademark and repositories and could simply change the license. They did meddle a lot, they delayed 7.2 for months, but not sure that is worth calling out here.

Author: Right, it's irrelevant. I'll just remove this part.

2024, the company changed the license of Redis from the open source BSD license
to dual source-available licenses. This was announced in a blog post [Redis
Adopts Dual Source-Available Licensing][redis-source-avail] and the license
change was [commited to the repository][change-license-pr] the same day.

[redis-source-avail]: https://redis.io/blog/redis-adopts-dual-source-available-licensing/
[change-license-pr]: https://github.com/redis/redis/pull/13157

> Neither of the licenses Redis Source Available License (RSALv2) nor the Server
> Side Public License (SSPLv1) are open source licenses, as neither meet the
> criteria of an open source license.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Neither of the licenses, Redis Source Available License (RSALv2) nor the Server
Side Public License (SSPLv1), are open source licenses, as neither meet the
criteria of an open source license.
```

RSALv2 forbids the use of the software in database products, to prevent their
competitors from providing database products and services. Such a restriction is
not in line with The Open Source Definition, criterion #6 “The license must not
restrict anyone from making use of the program in a specific field of endeavor”

> by the Open Source Initiative, nor “the freedom to run the program as you wish,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by the Open Source Initiative, nor “the freedom to run the program as you wish,
```
Maybe link https://opensource.org/osd here.

for any purpose (freedom 0)” in the Free Software Foundation's definition of
Free Software. The SSPL has similar restrictions, explained in the [SSPL article
on Wikipedia][sspl].

[sspl]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Side_Public_License

The birth of Valkey
-------------------

> The many contributors, not least from companies providing hosted Redis-derived
> or Redis-compatible databases services as a service, just like Redis (the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The many contributors, including companies providing hosted Redis-derived
or Redis-compatible database services, just like Redis (the
```

company) does, and which have been using and contributing to Redis (the open

> source software) just as long as Redis (the company) has existed, it was an easy
> decision by many contributors to continue the open source development as usual
> under the BSD license.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
source software) just as long as Redis (the company) has existed, made the decision continue the open source development as usual
under the BSD license.
```

The sentence is so long, it seems to lose the plot half way through.

Author: Hehe, I'll cut it into shorter ones. I got used to long sentences, like the last one in our license:

> IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

As Redis (the company) owns the trademark rights to the name Redis, the open
source project needed to continue under a different name. A group of six active
contributors (one from each of Alibaba, Amazon, Ericsson, Google, Huawei and

> Tencent) with the support from several other companies launced Valkey as a Linux

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tencent) with the support from several other companies launched Valkey as a Linux
```

Foundation project. It was announced in a [press release][lf-launch] only eight
days after Redis' license change.

> [lf-launch]: https://www.linuxfoundation.org/press/linux-foundation-launches-open-source-valkey-community

Reviewer 2: I would include the second lf announcement, https://www.linuxfoundation.org/press/valkey-community-announces-release-candidate-amid-growing-support-for-open-source-data-store, which included the support of 7 more companies as well as the announcement for 7.2.5
